I AI workloads and consideration
AI copies the human behaviour and actions, making predictions with ML

Anolamy detection : ML to analyze data over time and identify unusual changes, deviation from standard pattern
Knowledge mining : Extracting information from large volumes of data. Great for unstructured files by injesting documents. 
Computer vision : How Ai sees the world. object detection , text from images. e.g. Facial recognition 
Natural Language Processing NLP :  Software to understand spoken and written lanuages. Speech recognition & speech sysnthesis, speech translation. Postive & negative text tone
Generative AI : AI that can create original content such as text , images and code . Uses Large Language Model
   
Creating Responsible AI ( 6 Principles)
Fairness , Reliability and Safety , Privacy and Security, inclusiveness, Transparency , Accountability


II Machine Learning on Azure
Az Services : Az automated Machine Learning, Az machine learning designer
Supervised machine learning uses Regression and classification 

1. Regression : Predicting a numerical value based on historical data (dataset). features (inputs) and label (value to find out)
feature engg: creating new features based on existing one 

2. Classification : Category or class that item belongs to. 
Binary : eg. a person is high or low risk for loan 
Multi-class : eg. analyzing someones mood

3. Clustering (Unsupervised) : Group similar items based on similarities , not pridicting anything , no historical data available

4. Deep Learning: Uses artificial nural network , machine self trains itself
Need large amount of data, high end machines, slow to train, have multiple formats. 
Identifying patterns in unstructured data like object detection , text to speech detection

Depploying a Model using Az automated Machine Learning
Model performance : R2 score , 0-1 , higher is better in prediction
Root mean squared log err, larger meaning more errors

Data preparation
Cleaning
Normalization: converting the values to same sclae of 0-1
Splitting

Model deployment : via Inference Pipelines
can be deployed to Az Kubernetes (prefered for non-testing scenario) or containers (prefered for testing)

Training our Models
Pick Alorithm like fast training liner regression algorithm
Validation : to check how model is performing in prediticting the label. Data is split for training and validation. 

Az machine learning designer pipeline : drag and drop modules via screen . Takes several steps compared to Automated ML

Classification Models
Confusion matrix is used to score and evaluate a classification model
            Positive    Negative
Positive   True +ve     False -ve
Negative   False -ve   True -ve


III Computer Vision Workloads :how AI can see the world

Object detection, confident score (0-1) , bounding box , Optical Character recognition
Aure AI Vision service : Standalone & Az AI Multi services
Image classification : label to images to train model
Object detection : where in the pictrue the objects are. lebeling the objects in images, probablilty score is returned
Analyzing Faces : Az AI Face service . Facial analysis , Facial recognision 
AI Vision service is only for basic facial detection unlike Face service
Optical Character recognition (OCR): Reading Text from Images using OCR engine , has images edition and document edition

Document Intelligence : for analyzing documents and forms
Auto match field names to values. Has several pre build models like reading reciepts, ID card, Invoices, US Tax 
Az AI Video Indexer : Extracting insights from vedio


IV : Natural Language Processing (NLP)

services : AI Language  , AI Translator , AI Speech . 
Azure AI Language : Can dectect language & text , text sentiments
Entity recognition : entities in text and category assigned with confident score
PII : Personally identifiable information like ph,email ,ssn
Tokenization : breaking down texts into tokens , text normalization by removing punctuation and changing to lower case
               Stop word removal by excuding words from analysis
               N-grams are multi term pgrases
               Stemming consolidating similar words
Embedding : process of creating vectors for tokens , a way to relate words togather
Speech recognition , Speech Synthesis via Text to Speech API
Services : Az AI Speech , Az AI Translator , AI Language
AI Translator : text to text translations supports 90 languages. Atomatic language dection, Dict, Profanity filters
Language Understanding . Uttereances (Pharase) , Enttity (item) , Intent (Purpose)
Metrix 
Precision : % of Correct postive out of tatal positives predicted 
Recall : % of actual positives that model predicted
F1 score : combines precision & recall

V : Generative Ai Workloads on Az
Traditional AI immitates humans , while gen AI creates new contents
LLM : Large Language Models

Storage queues and Service Bus queues
Storage queues are part of the Azure Storage infrastructure. They allow you to store large numbers of messages. You access messages from anywhere in the world via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS. A queue message can be up to 64 KB in size. A queue might contain millions of messages, up to the total capacity limit of a storage account. Queues are commonly used to create a backlog of work to process asynchronously. For more information, see What are Azure Storage queues.

Service Bus queues are part of a broader Azure messaging infrastructure that supports queuing, publish/subscribe, and more advanced integration patterns. They're designed to integrate applications or application components that might span multiple communication protocols, data contracts, trust domains, or network environments. For more information about Service Bus queues/topics/subscriptions, see the Service Bus queues, topics, and subscriptions.

