
Reconcilation : react takes the copy of the DOM and compares what has changed and the difference is applied in brower 
so the entire DOM is not recreated unlike javascript
benefit is fast UI and better user experiance 

Component : javascript function that returns JSX , looks like HTML, alternative way to write js
JSX (Javascript Extension) : has hirarcy of components
Babel & SWC (Transpiler) tool coverts the JSX to JS for complier can understand
React DOM renders to html 

Components => JSX => Transpiler => Javascript => React DOM Library => HTML

Tools : Starting point sthat create templates , transforming JSX to JS, process JS for SPA , dev web server, auto browser updates
Vite , Next.js 

create new app
Install node.js Install from https://nodejs.org

npx create-react-app my-first-react-app
npm start
npm install bootstrap
npm run build

Vite app

npm create vite@latest myviteapp : Create a React App with Vite
cd my-vite-app
npm install : Install dependencies

Open existing app
cd myviteapp
npm run dev : Run the dev server
npm run lint

Bootstrap grid has 1 row and 12 columns.<div className="col-5"> means the content will take 5 columns of the row.

Props : A way to pass arguments to components. Read only. Better reusability of components.
Prop types is used to specify the type of arg value being passed.  deprecated by Vite , instead use Type script.
key prop : When rendering a list , key prop helps React to identify which items have changed, been added, or remove, so rendering is efficient and in right order

Hooks: Hooks let you use different React features from your components. built in and custom. They are functions . https://react.dev/reference/react/hooks
State : (like asp.net view state) components private data, introduced by state hook . State lets a component “remember” information like user input. For example, a form component can use state to store the input value.
Context Hooks : Context lets a component receive information from distant parents without passing it as props. For example, your app’s top-level component can pass the current UI theme to all components below, no matter how deep.
Ref Hooks : Refs let a component hold some information that isn’t used for rendering, like a DOM node or a timeout ID. Unlike with state, updating a ref does not re-render your component. Refs are an “escape hatch” from the React paradigm. They are useful when you need to work with non-React systems, such as the built-in browser APIs.
Effect Hooks : Effects let a component connect to and synchronize with external systems. This includes dealing with network, browser DOM, animations, widgets written using a different UI library, and other non-React code.
Performance Hooks : optimize re-rendering performance is to skip unnecessary work.tell React to reuse a cached calculation or to skip a re-render if the data has not changed since the previous render.
useMemo lets you cache the result of an expensive calculation.

pure function , memo hook, effect 

fetch is a built-in JavaScript function (available in browsers and Node.js since v18).
It’s used to make HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) to servers or APIs.
It returns a Promise, which resolves to a Response object.
